- [Instructor] In this
video, we're going to dig
a little bit deeper and try to understand
how we might multiply
larger and larger numbers.
In particular, we're gonna focus on
multiplying two-digit numbers
times one-digit numbers.
So, I always encourage
you pause this video,
and see if you can have a go at this.
Try to see if you can figure
out what 37 times six is
with some type of method.
All right, now let's try to
come up with a method ourselves.
One way to think about it
is the different places.
This three is in the tens place,
so it represents three
tens, and this seven is
in the ones place, so it
represents seven ones.
So, you can break up the 37
right over here as three tens.
I'll write it like this.
Three tens plus,
plus, and I'll do this
in yellow, seven ones.
And then, we are going to
multiply that times six.
Now, another way you
could think about this,
this is the same thing as,
I could rewrite this as,
three tens is the same thing
as 30, and seven ones is,
of course, just the same
thing as seven times six.
And, you could also view
this, and you could call
the distributive property if you like,
or I really want you to think
about it, why it's intuitive.
If I have 37 sixes, that's
the same thing as 30 sixes,
30 sixes plus seven sixes,
plus seven sixes, and I'll
put the parentheses there
just so we can keep track.
Once again, 37 of something is equal to
30 of that something plus
seven of that something.
37 times six is 30 times
six plus seven times six.
Then, we could figure these out.
What is 30 times six?
Well, three times six is
18, so three tens times six
is going to be 18 tens which
is the same thing as 180,
and seven times six is 42.
We just then need to
add these two numbers,
and we could think about them
in terms of the different places.
We could look at the ones
place, zero ones, two ones,
so that'll give us two ones.
Then, we can think in
terms of the tens place,
so we have four tens and eight tens,
so that is going to be 12 tens.
We could write that down as 120.
Then, we only have 100 right over here,
so we don't have a
hundreds place over here,
so I'll do 100, and if
you add these together,
100 plus 120, you add the
hundreds, you get 220.
Then, you add the two ones.
You get 222.
So, this is all going to be equal to 222.
Now, this isn't the
only way to approach it.
We could actually try to
do it kind of like this,
but we could write things so it's
a little bit easier to keep track of.
So, I could write, let me write
it this way, 37 times six.
I'll have you, this column
here is where I want
to write my ones places,
and this column here is
where I wanna write my tens places,
and if hundreds places show
up, I'll write it over there.
That's just really to
keep track of things.
Then, I can do the same thing.
I could take my six, and
I could say all right,
this is the same thing
as three tens times six
plus seven ones times six.
And, I could do it in either order.
Let's do the ones first.
So if I do the seven ones times
six, that's going to be 42,
four tens plus two ones.
How did I get that?
That is seven ones times
six or seven sixes.
That's how I got this number here.
Then, we could multiply our
three tens times the six
which we did over here,
so three tens times six.
Well, that's 30 sixes which
we already know is 180.
One in the hundreds place,
eight tens, zero ones.
Now, this makes it a little bit easier
to add everything together.
Exactly what we did at
this step right over here.
Everything is in the right place value,
so it's easy to add them up.
Two ones plus zero ones
is going to be two ones.
Four tens plus eight tens is 12 tens
or 102 tens, so I could
put the two tens here
and then put that 100 up here,
and then 100 plus 100 is 200.
So, there you have it, 222.
The whole point here though is
to really appreciate what is going on.
That we're just breaking up the 37.
We're breaking up this two-digit
number into its places,
the three tens, the seven ones,
and then we're multiplying
each of those times the
six in this situation,
and we did it both ways.
These are just different
ways to write the same,
really the same method.